---
layout: archive
title: "CS06512"
permalink: /CS06512/
author_profile: true
---


Course number and name:	CS 06512 Network Security
====

Credits and contact hours:	3 credits / 3 contact hours

Reference books (recommended): Charlie Kaufman, Radia Perlman, and Mike Speciner, *"Network Security: Private Communication in a Public World (2nd Edition) 2nd Edition"*, 2002. 

Specific course information
====
This is a graduate level course that covers the fundamentals of network security and cryptography. The course will cover such topics as cryptographic systems necessary for security, public key infrastructure, principles of data integrity, authentication, and key management, Internet architecture and TCP/IP protocol suite, application layer security, secure sockets layer and transport layer security protocols, IPSec and distributed denial of service attacks. Students will prepare and deliver technical presentations on state-of-the-art research topics in the network security.

Prerequisites: 	No prerequisite

List of topics to cover
====
1. Introduction to Cryptography
2. Secrete Key Cryptography
3. Hashes and Message Digests
4. Public Key Cryptography
5. Authentication
6. Security Handshake Pitfalls
7. Web Security
8. Intrusion Detection Systems
9. Firewall
   
Course Requirements and Grading Criteria
====
The course will be graded in accordance with *assignments (35%)*, and *midterm exam (30%)*, and *final exam (35%)*. 


* There is a 10%-per-day-late penalty for all assignments unless you communicate with me BEFORE the due dates. 

Students with Accommodations
====
Your academic success is important. If you have a documented disability that may have an impact upon your work in this class, please contact me ASAP. Students must schedule their exams in the testing center if they are eligible to receive extra time per their accommodations. Students must provide documentation of their disability to the Academic Success Center to receive official University services and accommodations. The Academic Success Center can be reached at (856) 256-4259. The Center is located on the third floor of Savitz Hall. The staff is available to answer questions regarding accommodations or assist you in your pursuit of accommodations.

Academic Honor Code
====
Each student should familiarize him/herself with Rowan University’s Academic Honesty Policy, including definitions of what constitutes a violation of the code as well as subsequent penalties.  Violations of the academic honor code include any form of plagiarism, and will be punished with a failure of the assignment at a minimum with possible failure of the course.  Plagiarism constitutes any form of copying information from published and unpublished sources without due citation of the source, as well as any sort of copying from other students.  In sum, be sure to “give credit where credit is due.” Further, academic dishonesty (cheating) will not be tolerated. Any individual caught cheating or aiding another student cheating will receive an automatic F in the course and his/her name will be forwarded to the Dean of Students for further possible action (i.e., suspension or expulsion).

