Course number and name:	CS 10250 Crypt/Blockchain Essential
====

Credits and contact hours:	3 credits / 3 contact hours

Reference books (recommended): *Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies, A Comprehensive Introduction*.

Specific course information
====
This introduction to the basic theory and practice of cryptographic techniques used in computer security will explore the inner workings of cryptographic techniques and how to use them correctly. It will include consensus algorithms (such as Proof of Work and Byzantine Consensus) and their role in blockchains and cryptocurrencies, cryptographic tools employed in cryptocurrencies (including digital signatures algorithm and zero-knowledge proofs) and trusted hardware in blockchain-based systems. 

Prerequisites: 	No prerequisite

List of topics to cover
====
1. Intro to Cryptography and Cryptocurrencies 
  Cryptosystem
  Hash function
  Digital signature
  Simple cryptocurrency
2. How Bitcoin Achieves Decentralization
  Distributed consensus
  Consensus without identity using a block chain
  Incentives and proof of work
3. 



Course Requirements and Grading Criteria
====
The course will be graded in accordance with *assignments (35%)*, and *midterm exam (30%)*, and *final exam (35%)*. 


* There is a 10%-per-day-late penalty for all assignments unless you communicate with me BEFORE the due dates. 

Students with Accommodations
====
Your academic success is important. If you have a documented disability that may have an impact upon your work in this class, please contact me ASAP. Students must schedule their exams in the testing center if they are eligible to receive extra time per their accommodations. Students must provide documentation of their disability to the Academic Success Center to receive official University services and accommodations. The Academic Success Center can be reached at (856) 256-4259. The Center is located on the third floor of Savitz Hall. The staff is available to answer questions regarding accommodations or assist you in your pursuit of accommodations.

Academic Honor Code
====
Each student should familiarize him/herself with Rowan University’s Academic Honesty Policy, including definitions of what constitutes a violation of the code as well as subsequent penalties.  Violations of the academic honor code include any form of plagiarism, and will be punished with a failure of the assignment at a minimum with possible failure of the course.  Plagiarism constitutes any form of copying information from published and unpublished sources without due citation of the source, as well as any sort of copying from other students.  In sum, be sure to “give credit where credit is due.” Further, academic dishonesty (cheating) will not be tolerated. Any individual caught cheating or aiding another student cheating will receive an automatic F in the course and his/her name will be forwarded to the Dean of Students for further possible action (i.e., suspension or expulsion).

